---
title: valgrind
date: 2016-06-20 22:38:38
tags:
---

`valgrind` 是一个免费的内存检测工具，第一次使用时一定要注意**必须写明目标文件目录（相对目录即可）**。 `valgrind` 可以干很多事，具体有哪些呢[^functions]？

<!-- more -->
- detect bad memory usage (reading uninitialized memory, writing past the buffer etc.)
- **detect memory leaks (this is what I'll cover here)**.
- profile CPU cache usage
- profile program like gprof.
- profile heap usage
- detect thread related problems with shared memory.

通常重定位结果文件， `--log-file=valgrind.log` 。

##### Common pitfalls

###### Custom memory allocators


There are situations when debugging memory leaks is harder that usual. First of all Valgrind understands only standard allocation/deallocation routines like malloc()/new and if you (or a library you are using) use some custom memory allocators Valgrind can't track memory usage. One example is glib library. If something allocates memory using it's routines Valgrind doesn't work properly by default. In this case authors of the library created an easy mechanism to overcome the problem: you can set some environment variables (G_DEBUG set to include gc-friendly, G_SLICE=always-malloc) to switch glib custom memory allocation to use system's functions directly. Another solution is to teach Valgrind how your allocators works using it's mechanism to describe custom memory allocators. This is useful if you are writing your own memory allocator.

###### Not exactly a memory leak


Sometimes you see the program grows because standard system monitoring utilities show that the process allocates more memory than you expect but Valgrind shows nothing. The reason could be that memory is deallocated but not as soon as possible. Imagine that you are creating new objects in some other "master" object, all pointers are stored in a vector so they can be freed in the destructor. Unfortunately your object that does such things has a long life time (probably is destroyed at the program's exit time) and allocated objects are not freed as soon as they are no longer needed but when the program exits. It's not a memory leak for Valgrind, but it's definitely a bug.
I remember I was using the std::vector container in improper way. I put large amount of objects in it and at some point use the clear() method to delete them. There was no memory leak, but the way the implementation of the standard vector class worked was to use some memory pool internally so shrinking the vector didn't always cause memory deallocation. In some situations the process was large but at that time it should not use such bug amount of memory. It was case where there was no memory leak (Valgrind didn't show anything) but bad usage of a library caused excessive memory consumption. The solution was to use std::list instead on std::vector.

In such situations the massif Valgrind tool may be helpful.

###### Memory leaks that are not harmful


Sometimes a programmer just knows about the memory leak, but he also knows it's not harmful. One situation is loading the program configuration into dynamic structures at program startup and not freeing it anywhere. It's one time allocation, the data are used during whole programs run time, so it's practically not a leak. Sometimes it's easier just to not free it than searching for a proper place in the program to do that. One drawback is that Valgrind will show spurious warnings that are irritating. Letting the operating system automatically free all program resources at exit can be also faster than doing it int the program itself.
Valgrind shows how many memory blocks leaked, it's useful to judge how bad the memory leak is. If there are single block leaks despite of running the code in a loop or running the program for long time I consider them low-priority bugs.

###### Memory leaks in libraries


Sometimes Valgrind shows a leak in a library you are using. They may be true leaks caused bu a buggy library but first thing you should do in such situation is to check if you are using the library's API properly. You might miss an information that returned objects must be freed manually or something like that.
It's often common that a library allocates some global resources in it's initialization routine or even automatically in the first call to one of its function. There may be even no way to deallocate them. An I said before it's useful to run the code in a loop and see if the leak is a single memory block or there are many of them.

###### Drawbacks of run-time analyze


If Valgrind doesn't show any leaks this doesn't mean that none exist! It's drawback of run-time analyze that the code checked was just the code that was used during program run. For example if you don't properly free memory when handling an error and the error didn't occur during Valgrind run you will not find the leak. Like in the first example: the leak is present only in case of a read error. It's probably the biggest drawback of this tool in my opinion but it's hard to imagine a better one.
In practice...


At the beginning of using Valgrind to debug my programs I used to think this way: It's just an automatic, dumb tool that tracks memory allocations and can be wrong. I looked at the code and there can be no memory leak at this point, it's one of the cases when Valgrind is wrong.. But I was wrong! After years of using it I can see that 99,9% of it's messages are right but it's often hard to see it in the code.
One real world case was when I was writing a multi-threaded program that used libmysqlclient library and valgrind showed memory leaks in mysql_real_connect()/mysql_init(). It's clear from documentation that the memory allocated by the library when using those functions should be freed by mysql_close(). From the code it was clear that I do it properly: every created connection was closed. I even added a counter to the places when I create connection and destroy it and saw all connections were destroyed. I started to think that there is a memory leak in the libmysqlclient_r library (a thread-safe version) but when I separated the code (wrote a simple program that allocates conenctions and free them) Valgrind showed no errors. So there are no leaks in the library. If I had less believe in Valgrind I would give up at this moment, but I knew it's right. As I found out there is a special requirement by libmysqlclient_r, I just didn't read the documentation. If you are creating MYSQL objects in different threads the library automatically allocates per-thread global data, but to free them you must use mysql_thread_end(). It's not done automatically in contrast to allocation.

###### More valgrind features

Valgrind is not just a memory leak detector. There are other things it can do:
The memcheck tool that we used also shows bad memory access. It reports situations when: you read uninitialized memory, read past the buffers, access freed memory etc. All with nice stack traces. This is really the primary use of Valgrind for me.

Heap profiler, massif is a tool that profiles heap usage. If the program consumes too much memory but the cause are not memory leaks it's useful to see where most memory is allocated. This is what this tool does.

Helgrind: detects possible race conditions in multi-threaded programs. It tracks shared memory usage and automatically detects where no locks are held when necessary. Also shows other thread-related problems.
There are also other tools worth to know, just look th the Valgrind's documentation.

    #include <stdlib.h>

    void fun(void)
    {
      int* x = (int*) malloc(10 * sizeof(int));
      x[10] = 100;
    }
    int main()
    {
      fun();
      return 0;
    }


当使用命令 `valgrind --tool=memcheck --leak-check=yes --show-reachable=yes ./valtest` 时，检测结果如下

    ==3637== Memcheck, a memory error detector
    ==3637== Copyright (C) 2002-2015, and GNU GPL'd, by Julian Seward et al.
    ==3637== Using Valgrind-3.11.0 and LibVEX; rerun with -h for copyright info
    ==3637== Command: ./valtest
    ==3637==
    ==3637== Invalid write of size 4
    ==3637==    at 0x100000F5C: fun (valgrind-test2.c:6)
    ==3637==    by 0x100000F83: main (valgrind-test2.c:10)
    ==3637==  Address 0x100a81378 is 0 bytes after a block of size 40 alloc'd
    ==3637==    at 0x100007D81: malloc (vg_replace_malloc.c:303)
    ==3637==    by 0x100000F53: fun (valgrind-test2.c:5)
    ==3637==    by 0x100000F83: main (valgrind-test2.c:10)
    ==3637==
    ==3637==
    ==3637== FILE DESCRIPTORS: 3 open at exit.
    ==3637== Open file descriptor 2: /dev/ttys000
    ==3637==    <inherited from parent>
    ==3637==
    ==3637== Open file descriptor 1: /dev/ttys000
    ==3637==    <inherited from parent>
    ==3637==
    ==3637== Open file descriptor 0: /dev/ttys000
    ==3637==    <inherited from parent>
    ==3637==
    ==3637==
    ==3637== HEAP SUMMARY:
    ==3637==     in use at exit: 21,906 bytes in 186 blocks
    ==3637==   total heap usage: 268 allocs, 82 frees, 28,082 bytes allocated
    ==3637==
    ==3637== 40 bytes in 1 blocks are definitely lost in loss record 23 of 62
    ==3637==    at 0x100007D81: malloc (vg_replace_malloc.c:303)
    ==3637==    by 0x100000F53: fun (valgrind-test2.c:5)
    ==3637==    by 0x100000F83: main (valgrind-test2.c:10)
    ==3637==
    ==3637== LEAK SUMMARY:
    ==3637==    definitely lost: 40 bytes in 1 blocks
    ==3637==    indirectly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
    ==3637==      possibly lost: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
    ==3637==    still reachable: 0 bytes in 0 blocks
    ==3637==         suppressed: 21,866 bytes in 185 blocks
    ==3637==
    ==3637== For counts of detected and suppressed errors, rerun with: -v
    ==3637== ERROR SUMMARY: 2 errors from 2 contexts (suppressed: 19 from 19)

从结果中可以看到，所有潜在的风险都检测到了， `good job`。

[^functions]:[http://www.linuxprogrammingblog.com/using-valgrind-to-debug-memory-leaks](http://www.linuxprogrammingblog.com/using-valgrind-to-debug-memory-leaks)
