---
title: 简化从句练习
date: 2016-07-05 16:38:50
tags:
  - Grammer
  - 英语文法俱乐部
---


简化从句的基本原则

>一、对等从句中，相对应位置（主语对主语，动词对动词）如果重复，择一弹性省略

>二、从属从句（名词从句、形容词从句与副词从句）中，省略主语与be动词两部分，留下补语。不过补语若非重复或空洞的元素，就应该设法保留，以免句意改变。

<!-- more -->
例一

>1. The patient had not responded to the standard treatment.

>2. This fact greatly puzzled the medical team.

两个句子存在交叉部分，则可以考虑用关系从句连接起来

>The patient had not responded to the standard treatment, which greatly puzzled the medical team.

`which`可以代表整句话，也可以代表`the standard treatment`，这样一来一个句子可能有两种解释。

写成名词从句

>That the patient had not responded to the standard treatment greatly puzzled the medical team.

简化

-	有be动词即省略be动词
-	有语气助动词(can, must, should等)则改为不定词(to V)
-	除此外动词一律加上-ing保留

>The patient's not having responded to the standard treatment greatly puzzled the medical team.

例二

>1. The summer tourists are all gone.

>2. The resort town has resumed its air of tranquillity.

这两个句子间没有重复部分，但是存在逻辑关系，可以用副词从句的方式。

>Now that the summer tourists are all gone, the resort town has resumed its air of tranquillity.

-	主语不同需要保留
-	be动词省略
-	剩余gone做补语

省略后整个句子剩下**主语**和**补语**，句子结构不完整

> With the summer tourists all gone

`the summer tourists`作`with`的宾语，`gone`为补语，句子结构完整。

> With the summer tourists all gone, the resort town has resumed its air of tranquillity.

例三

>1. Confucius must have written on pieces of bamboo.

>2. Confucius lived in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty.

>3. Paper was not available until the Eastern Han Dynasty

( 1 + 2 )有交叉，构成关系从句

>Confucius, who lived in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, must have written on Pieces of bamboo.

简化后

>Confucius, living in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, must have written on pieces of bamboo.

+ 3

>Confucius, living in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, must have written on pieces of bamboo, because paper was not available until the Eastern Han Dynasty.

简化

>Confucius, living in the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, must have written on pieces of bamboo, paper not being available until the Eastern Han Dynasty.

例四

>1. The movable-type press was invented by Gutenberg.

>2. The movable-type press was introduced to England in 1485.

>3. The event marked the end of the Dark Ages there.


1+2

>  The movable-type press, which was invented by Gutenberg, was introduced to England in 1485.

+ 3

> The movable-type press, which was invented by Gutenberg, was introduced to England in 1485, an event which marked the end of the Dark Ages there.

简化

>The movable-type press, invented by Gutenberg, was introduced to England in 1485, marking the end of the Dark Ages there.

例五

>1. Ben Kook was educated in an art college.

>2. Ben Kook acts unusual at times.

>3. Ben Kook deals with economic matters at these times.

1+2存在因果关系，构成副词从句

>Because he was educated in an art college, Ben Kook acts unusual at times.

+3 at times 和 at there times交叉

>Because he was educated in an art college, Ben Kook acts unusual(at times) when deals with economic matters at there times.

简化

>Educated in an art college, Ben Kook acts unusual when dealing with economic matters.

例六

>1. I'd like something

>2. You will meet some people.

>3. Then you can leave

1+2

> I'd like that you (will) meet some people.

+3

>I'd like you to meet some people before you(can)leave.

简化

>I'd like you to meet some people before leaving.


例七

>1. I have not practiced very much

>2. I should have practiced very much

>3. I am worried about something.

>4. I might forget something

>5. What should I say during the speech contest?

1+2 由"as ... as"构成复句

> I have not practiced as much as I should.

+3

> Because I have not practiced as much as I should, I am worried about something.

简化

> Not having practiced as much as I should, I am worried about something.

+4

>Not having practiced as much as I should, I am worried (about the possibility) that I might forget something.

简化

>Not having practiced as much as I should, I am worried about forgetting something.

+5

>Not having practiced as much as I should, I am worried about forgetting what should I say during the speech contest.

简化

>Not having practiced as much as I should, I am worried about forgetting what to say during the speech contest.

例八

>1. A.Fries was the leader of the College football team then.

>2. A.Fries is the director of a football club now.

>3. A.Fries saw something.

>4. The College football team lost in the important game.

>5. A.Fries offered something.

>6. He would assume responsibility.

>7. He would tender his resignation.

1和2在内容和句型上对仗工整，适合对等从句的方式表现，使用and连接

>(1+2)A.Fries was the leader of the college football team then and he is the director of a football club now.

对等从句简化方法是两从句相对应位置如有重复，则省略一个。

>(A)A.Fries was the leader to the college football team then and the director of a football club now.

(3+4)构成名词从句

>(3+4)A.Fries saw that the College football team lost in the important game.

名词从句可以将主语改为所有格，动词肢解改为名词

>(B)A.Fries saw the College football team's loss in the important game.

>(5+6)A.Fries offered that he (would) assume responsibility.

简化

> A.Fries offered to assume responsibility.

>(+A) A.Fries, who was the leader go the College football team then and the director of a football club now, offered to assume responsibility.

简化

>A.Fries, the leader of the College football team then and the director of a football club now, offered to assume responsibility.

>(+B) Because he saw the College football team's loss in the important game, A.Fries, the leader of the College football team then and the director of a football club now, offered to assume responsibility.

>(简化+7)Seeing the College football team's loss in the important game, A.Fries, the leader of the College football team then and the director of a football club now, offered to assume responsibility by tendering his resignation.
