---
title: 'decltype '
date: 2016-11-27 08:27:37
tags:
---





When we apply  `decltype` to an expression that is not a variable, we got the type that that expression yields. some expressions will cause `decltype` to yield a reference type. Generally speaking, `decltype` returns a reference type for expressions that yield objects that can stand on the left-hand side of the assignment.



<!-- more -->

```c++
int i = 42, *p = &i, &r = i;
decltype(r + 0) b;					// ok: addition yield an int; b is an int
decltype(*p) c;						// error; c is int& and must be initialized
```

 Here `r` is a reference, so `decltype` is a reference type. If we want the type to which `r` refers, we can use `r` in an expression, such as `r+0`, which is an expression that yields a value that has a non reference type.



On the other hand, the dereference operator is an example of an expression for which `decltype` returns a reference, As we've seen, when we dereference a pointer, we get the object to which the pointer points, Moreover, we can assign to that object. Thus, the type deduced by `decltype(*p)` is `int&`, not plain `int`.



Anthor important difference between `decltype` and `auto` is that the deduction done by `decltype` depends on the form of its given expression. What can be confusing is that enclosing the name of a variable in parentheses affects the type returned by `decltype` .When we apply `decltype` to a variable without any parentheses, we get the type of that variable. If we wrap the variable's name in one or more sets of parentheses, the compiler will evaluate the operand as an expression. A variable is an expression that can be the left-hand side of an assignment. As a result, `decltype` on such an expression yields a reference:



```c++
decltype((i)) d;			// error: d is int& and must be initialized
decltype(i) e;             //ok: e is an int
```



> Warning
>
> Remember that decltype (( variable )) (note, double parentheses) is always a reference type, but decltype (variable ) is a reference type only if variable is a reference.
