---
title: Brexit
date: 2016-06-25 07:26:11
tags:
  - 清晨朗读会
---


> By Griff Witte, Karla Adam and Dan Balz[^1]

LONDON — British voters defied their leaders and international allies by cutting ties with the European Union in a stunning result Friday that threw financial markets into chaos, forced Britain’s prime minister to resign and unleashed a new independence quest by Scotland.

<!-- more -->
As Britain absorbed the earthshaking news, Prime Minister David Cameron said he would step down after championing the campaign to remain in the European Union.

Just hours later, the leader in heavily pro-E.U. Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, said she would push for a new referendum to break with England and the other two partners in the United Kingdom: Wales and Northern Ireland.

A second independence referendum, after voters opted to remain part of Britain in 2014, is “highly likely,” said Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister. Calls to break away were echoed by nationalists in Northern Ireland.

In an emotional address outside his 10 Downing Street offices, Cameron said the country now deserved “fresh leadership” in the face of the rejection in Thursday’s referendum, which tipped 52 percent to 48 percent to the E.U. critics despite many pre-vote polls predicting just the opposite outcome.

Cameron, who enjoys a close relationship with President Obama, said he hoped a new prime minister could be in place by October.

...

“I will do everything I can as prime minister to steady the ship over the coming weeks and months,” he said with his wife, "**Samantha**" Cameron, standing at his side. “But I do not think it would be right for me to try to be the captain that steers our country to its next destination.”

After his announcement, Cameron was driven later Friday morning to Buckingham Palace for an audience with the queen.

[^1][清晨朗读会](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI1NzIyNjU4Ng==&mid=2247483851&idx=1&sn=9a0940827fc8800149123ca7b1ae8fd3&scene=1&srcid=0702rVGVnj8Ww2ah6UCr9Mrc&key=77421cf58af4a65341b59a1d9e14a044158b16e3286f5a9ca63adea13c6c07200b946b1ccacd737850c5aca30163ea92&ascene=0&uin=MTMzOTQ1ODU2MA%3D%3D&devicetype=iMac+MacBookPro11%2C2+OSX+OSX+10.11.5+build(15F34)&version=11020201&pass_ticket=8H7CU631D0rh6L3uzGOrz6o5ok3kAtyPqo4UlaJpIPf4EA8qwowDqU%2FfalK%2B1Rrf)
