---
title: Paradise
date: 2016-06-12 21:24:17
tags:
  - 清晨朗读会
---


<iframe frameborder="no" border="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" width=330 height=86 src="http://music.163.com/outchain/player?type=2&id=17177380&auto=0&height=66"></iframe>

ohn Prine[^1] (born October 10, 1946) is an American country/folk singer-songwriter. He has been active as a composer, recording artist, and live performer since the early 1970s.

<!-- more -->
Born and raised in Maywood, Illinois, Prine learned to play the guitar at the age of 14. Subsequently serving in West Germany with the U.S. armed forces, by the late 1960s he had moved to Chicago, where he worked as a mailman, writing and singing songs as a hobby. Becoming a part of the city's folk revival, he was discovered by Kris Kristofferson, resulting in the production of Prine's self-titled debut album through Atlantic Records in 1971. After receiving critical acclaim, Prine focused on his musical career, recording three more albums for Atlantic. He then signed to Asylum Records, where he recorded an additional three albums.

"Paradise" is a song written by John Prine for his father, and recorded for his 1971 debut album, John Prine. Prine also re-recorded the song for his 1986 album, German Afternoons. The song is about the devastating impact of strip mining for coal, whereby the top layers of soil are blasted off with dynamite to reach the coal seam below. The song is also about what happened to the area around the Green River in Kentucky because of the strip mining. The song references the Peabody Coal Company, and a town called Paradise in Muhlenberg County, Kentucky, where the Tennessee Valley Authority now operates a coal-fired power plant. The area has suffered serious economic downturn because of the decline of coal mining.


[^1]:[清晨朗读会](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI1NzIyNjU4Ng==&mid=2247483740&idx=1&sn=fdbcc39333ce5f01f06bdfc2f3aedac2&scene=1&srcid=0701tBNaPdA9P2DfJ3Kq4Mc1&key=77421cf58af4a653ded5189ebcffc51d31351032060b0d2feecb175cbf8ee4ff2a0c7ad58b4cd9b7bb27a16199c92c01&ascene=0&uin=MTMzOTQ1ODU2MA%3D%3D&devicetype=iMac+MacBookPro11%2C2+OSX+OSX+10.11.5+build(15F34)&version=11020201&pass_ticket=JpMDsA87Kq8iq4HY%2FOuzK4P%2BqTAOjY2KZC29g2o579abtCXCDxqwF%2BCMOeJBwMsn)
