---
title: Succeed How We Can Reach Our Goals
date: 2017-03-09 22:17:03
tags:
  - mind
---
> No.9

But you don’t necessarily need to read goal words to unconsciously trigger goals. Other studies have shown that the mere presence of means that could be used to achieve the goal can trigger it. **Walking past the gym can trigger the goal of wanting to work out. A plate of fruits and vegetables can trigger the goal of eating healthy. **(Strategically walking my husband past the jewelry store just before a birthday or anniversary has paid off for me on more than one occasion.)

<!-- more -->
**Even other people can trigger goals—especially people you are close to, who you know want you to pursue a particular goal.** Psychologist James Shah interviewed college students to determine how much each student’s father valued high achievement. He found that when the students were subliminally (unconsciously) exposed to their own father’s name before completing a set of difficult problems, those students who associated Dad with the goal of high achievement worked harder and performed better. Also, the closer the relationship with Dad, the stronger the effects.

But when it was over, they had no idea that they had been trying particularly hard. The goal of achieving was triggered by unconscious thoughts of their fathers and was pursued completely without awareness. Interestingly, unconsciously thinking about a loved one who does not approve of a goal can also inhibit its pursuit—you are less likely to want to get drunk or leave all the dishes in the sink if your unconscious mind is envisioning your mother’s wagging finger or disappointed sigh. Under certain circumstances, though, this can backfire—recent research has shown that among more “rebellious” individuals, unconsciously triggered thoughts of an achievement-loving dad can lead to less effort and worse performance. Evidently, when it comes to rebels, even their unconscious minds don’t like being told what to do. Remarkably, the goals of people you don’t even know can be goal triggers. Psychologists refer to this as goal contagion—because at an unconscious level, goals do appear to be quite contagious. Just **seeing someone else pursue a particular goal makes you more likely to start pursuing it yourself.** In one of the first studies of goal _contagion_, for example, a group of Dutch men and women read a short story about Johan, a college student who was planning a vacation with friends. In one version of the story, Johan was going to a farm in his village to work for a month before taking the trip. Though not explicitly stated, this information implied that Johan had the goal of earning money in order to go on his trip. In the other version, Johan was going to spend the month volunteering at a community center. After reading one of the two Johan stories, everyone had the opportunity to earn money by completing a computer task as quickly as possible—the faster their performance, the more money they could earn. Those who had read about the Johan who had the goal of earning money were 10 percent faster than those who read about Johan the volunteer! And once again, the faster participants were completely unaware that anything about Johan had influenced their own behavior. But Johan’s moneymaking goal had become _contagious_, and the people exposed to it worked harder to earn money without ever realizing why.

In another study, a group of male participants read the story of Bas, who was meeting his former college friend Natasha in the local pub. They spend the night catching up, drinking, and dancing. In one version of the story, Bas and Natasha part ways at the end of the evening. In another, Bas walks Natasha home and, upon arrival, asks, “May I come in?” The goal of seeking casual sex is implied (quite strongly) but never actually stated. After reading about either the sex-seeking Bas or the heading-home- alone Bas, each of the male participants in the study found themselves in a position to offer help to an attractive female undergraduate named Ellen. You probably won’t be surprised to learn that the men who had read about sex-seeking Bas spent significantly more time and energy helping the beautiful and vulnerable Ellen.

So, at this point, you may be getting worried. Does this mean that anytime I see someone with a particular goal, I’m going to adopt it? No—there are limits on how “contagious” a goal will be for you. For example, Johan’s moneymaking goal turned out to only be contagious for men and women who themselves were short on cash—the participants who felt that they had plenty of money did not show any effect at all. **A goal must seem desirable before your unconscious mind will adopt it.**

Okay, but what if the goal is something I shouldn’t have? Can bad goals be contagious, too? Will watching too much Sopranos turn me into a criminal? If my friend cheats on her husband, will I unconsciously adopt that goal, too? Absolutely not. **Nothing can trigger a goal that you feel is wrong to pursue, no matter how desirable it may seem.** In another version of the Bas study, when casual sex- seeking Bas was also described as excited about “the upcoming birth of his child,” the results changed dramatically. Because they viewed the goal of seeking causal sex when you are already in a relationship as reprehensible, the men in that version didn’t find Bas so contagious and, as a result, were not particularly helpful to poor Ellen.

There are important limits to what the environment can do. The good news is that nothing in your environment is going to trigger in you the goal of being a mass murderer, or robbing a bank, or cheating on your spouse, unless those were goals you already had to begin with. **In general, unconsciously operating goals are ones that we either have already consciously adopted (but are just continuing to work in an unconscious way) or are goals we see in a very positive light.**

Make Your Unconscious Work for You Now that you know how cues in your environment can trigger the unconscious pursuit of goals, it’s time to take a good look around and see what your environment may be triggering. And even more important, take the time to figure out what is missing. If there are goals you want to pursue (losing weight, stopping smoking, remembering to call your mother, fixing up the house), are there triggers in your environment that will help your unconscious mind activate those goals? Remember that the triggers can be anything, so long as their meaning is clear to you. Leave healthy snacks out where you can see them. Leave a fitness magazine lying on the counter in your kitchen. Keep a to-do list, in big letters, someplace where you see it every day. Put a nice, framed photo of your mom next to the phone. **It doesn’t matter what kind of cues you use—as long as you fill your environment with them, you can count on your unconscious mind to start giving you a hand in reaching the goals you want to achieve.**

Of course the same advice applies to times when you want someone else to be more successful in pursuing a goal. Are there cues in your teenagers’ rooms that will help them remember to do their homework? (My parents gave me Einstein and Beethoven posters in high school. Very clever of them.) Are there cues in your employees’ workspace that will inspire them to work with enthusiasm and efficiency? Are there cues in your home that will encourage your spouse to be more cooperative and supportive? When you think about the kinds of triggers you might add to these environments, remember that the same trigger may lead to very different goals, depending on the person. For example, being in a situation of holding power over others seems to unconsciously trigger social-responsibility goals (like helping others or giving to charity) in people who strongly value community. **The same situation triggers more self-interested goals (like getting ahead at work or obtaining financial rewards) in people who are more individualistic.**

So **tailor** **the cues you create to the person they are meant for—this may take some creativity on your part, but it will be well worth the effort.** Delegating goal pursuit to the unconscious parts of the mind is a great way to free up mental space and energy for all the things that constantly require your attention. It’s a great way to keep yourself on track when temptations and distractions arise. And just like when you find yourself pulling into your driveway at the end of a long day, you may find yourself achieving goals without really knowing quite how you got there.

### What You Can Do

- Know what is influencing you. If you want to make better choices when it comes to setting goals, it’s helpful to understand some of the hidden influences on those choices. By bringing them to light, we can evaluate whether they are right or wrong, and if we want to, lessen their influence.
- Know what you believe about your abilities. The goals we set for ourselves are shaped in large part by our beliefs about our abilities. If there are goals that appeal to you, but you have avoided setting them in your life, it’s time to ask yourself why. How sure are you that your beliefs are correct? Is there another way to look at things?
- Embrace the potential for change. Believing you have the ability to reach your goals is important, but so is believing you can get the ability. Many of us believe that our intelligence, our personality, and our physical aptitudes are fixed—that no matter what we do, we won’t improve. These “entity” beliefs focus us on goals that are all about validating ourselves, rather than about developing and growing. Fortunately, decades of research suggest that this belief is completely wrong—“incremental” beliefs that our characteristics can change over time turn out to be supported by scientific evidence. So if you believe there is something about you that you cannot change, and that belief has shaped the goals you’ve chosen in your life, it’s time to toss it. Embracing the (accurate) belief that you can change will allow you to make better choices and reach your fullest potential.
- Set up the right environment. Another powerful influence on the goals you pursue is your environment, and that influence is almost always unconscious. The words we read, the objects we see, the people we interact with—just about anything we encounter can trigger unconscious goal pursuit. Role models motivate us, in large part, through goal contagion. In other words, we adopt the goals we see other people pursuing, provided we see those people in a positive light.
- Use triggers to tap your unconscious. To keep yourself motivated, fill your environment with reminders and triggers that will keep your unconscious mind working toward your goal, even when your conscious mind is distracted by other things.


# CHAPTER 3

## The Goals That Keep You Moving Forward

AT THE START OF EVERY SEMESTER, I STAND AT THE FRONT OF A LARGE lecture hall looking at a new group of about 100 to 150 fresh-faced young undergraduates. They sit, with pens and notebooks in hand, just waiting for me to start speaking so that they can feverishly write down everything I say. When I was a graduate student, I had eagerly looked forward to my future career as a professor, imagining how I would inspire and engage my students. In my lectures, I would open the door for them into the fascinating and insightful world of scientific psychology. I would help them to better understand themselves and, in so doing, help them to reach their fullest potential. In my head it was something like **Dead Poets Society**, only with a little less standing on tables and a lot less poetry. So you can imagine my disappointment when I came to understand that in the reality of the college classroom, the question I am asked most often by my students is, “Professor, will this be on the exam?”

You really can’t blame the students—I have been fortunate enough to teach at some of this country’s finest universities, and these are young people with first-rate minds. But they are also young people who are focused, for the most part, on getting good grades and proving that they are smart. It’s not that they are all entity theorists, believing that their intelligence is fixed—though many undoubtedly are. It’s mostly that modern college undergraduates don’t feel that they have the time (or inclination) to join me on a journey of scientific and self-discovery. They need to get into law school. Or medical school. Or an M.B.A. program. Tell students that they should focus a little less on their grades and a lot more on thinking deeply and meaningfully about what you are trying to teach them, and they will look at you as if you have seven heads. Or worse, you’ll get the patronizing eye roll and sigh. “Isn’t Professor Grant Halvorson naïve? Focus less on grades? She must think this is Dead Poets Society.”

But what difference does it make, really? Does it matter if your goal is to prove that you are good at what you do, or if instead it’s to grow and improve? Aren’t both kinds of goals motivating? Sure, they can be. But that motivation will look and feel very different. In the last chapter, I talked about how your beliefs can shape your tendency to focus on goals that are about performance, or goals that are about progress. In this chapter, I’m going to tell you more about how these two kinds of goals differ from one another, in ways that really matter.

For example, the kind of goal you end up choosing will affect how interesting and enjoyable your journey to achievement will be. It will influence how prone you are to anxiety and depression, and how you handle it when you get hit with a bad case of the blues. Most important, it will determine not only how strong your motivation is, but how long you’ll persist when the going gets tough. You see, some kinds of goals make you much more likely to keep trying and not give up, no matter how discouraged you may get. Others seem to be a perfect setup for failure. It’s time we all learned to tell them apart.

So think back to when you were a high school or college student— in your classes, did you care more about developing your ability and learning as much as you could, or were you trying to show your teacher (or your parents, or yourself) that you already had a lot of ability? In your current job, do you tend to see a new project or assignment as an opportunity to learn and expand your expertise, or as a chance to prove yourself or impress your boss? When problems arise in your romantic relationships, do you focus on growing as a couple and learning from your mistakes, or on evaluating and judging your partner (and yourself)? In other words, is your goal to be good or to get better?

Before continuing, take a moment to jot down your answers to the following statements in your notebook or on a piece of paper. Remember to be honest—there are no right or wrong answers.
