---
title: Succeed How We Can Reach Our Goals
date: 2017-03-04 17:01:25
tags:
  - mind
---

> No.6
## The Power (and Peril) of Positive Thinking

You are probably already well aware of the importance of “thinking positive” when you are setting a goal for yourself, or working to reach that goal. Believe in yourself, believe you will achieve your goals, and you will succeed. It would be easy to fill a generously sized bookcase with all the self-help books whose central thesis is this relatively simple idea. And it’s a popular idea among research psychologists, too.

<!-- more -->
So the world loves an optimist, and the good news is that optimism comes pretty naturally to most of us. In studies of optimistic beliefs, psychologists routinely find that **most of us believe we are much more likely than our peers to have good things happen to us—to have successful careers, own our own homes, make a lot of money, and live past ninety.** We believe we are much less likely than everyone else to get divorced, have a heart attack, have a drinking problem, or buy a car that turns out to be a lemon. And by and large, this is a good thing. It’s “by and large” because there are important limits. You need to be careful with positive thinking and make sure it’s directed in the right way.

You see, there is more than one way to think positively about the future. Pretend for a moment that you have the goal of losing weight. There are at least two ways in which you could “think positively” about this goal: _1. You could say to yourself: “I have the ability to lose weight, and I am confident I can reach my goal.” In other words, you could think positively about your chances for success. 2. You could say to yourself: “I will easily be able to avoid temptations like doughnuts and potato chips, and have no problems sticking to my new exercise regimen.” In other words, you could think positively about easily overcoming obstacles to success._ When most self-help books talk about the importance of being positive when it comes to reaching your goals, they lump both of these kinds of positive thinking together. They tell you to believe that you will win, and believe that you will win easily. Unfortunately, lumping both kinds of thinking together is a BIG mistake. Because one form of positive thinking is a great thing to do, and the other is a total no- no and a recipe for failure.

Let’s start with #1—thinking positively about your chances for success. Probably the most widely known and universally accepted theory in the study of motivation is something called Expectancy Value Theory. It states, in a nutshell, that people are motivated to do anything as a function of (1) how likely they are to be successful (that’s the expectancy part) and (2) how much they think they will benefit from it (that’s the value part). And of course the more motivated you are, the more likely you are to reach your goal. So it’s not just pop-psychology feel-good nonsense. **Believing you will succeed really does make you more likely to succeed.** (There is an important exception to this rule, for a particular kind of goal that I’m going to talk about a lot in Chapter 4. But for most goals this is true, so let’s keep it simple for now.)

- does 强调


While there are nearly countless examples in psychology studies on this subject, one of my favorite illustrations of this effect is from a recent study of exercise habits. Tara Parker-Pope, a New York Times columnist who writes about health and wellness, recently reported on research in the Annals of Behavioral Medicine that looked at the use of home-gym equipment. 7 It’s pretty hard to find adults who haven’t, at some point in their lives, fooled themselves into thinking that if they just had the convenience of owning their own treadmill or stationary bike, they would use it all the time. (For me, it was one of those stair stepper machines. My husband is still chiding me about that one. But until he gets rid of the barbell set I keep tripping over, I really don’t think I should have to listen.) So who does actually use their home gym, rather than just let it collect dust? It turns out that the people in the study who truly believed they could do it were nearly three times as likely as those who doubted themselves to still be using their equipment a year later. (In my case, I really have to admit that even when I bought it, I knew deep down I probably wouldn’t stick with it. I didn’t honestly believe I had a high likelihood of success. I actually hate stair steppers.)

So if it’s a good thing to believe you will succeed, then surely it must be good to imagine yourself succeeding easily, and avoiding temptations and overcoming obstacles with the slightest of effort (that’s positive thinking type #2). Intuitively, that makes sense. But actually, it’s really, really wrong. Psychologist Gabriele Oettingen has extensively studied the motivational impact of _believing you will succeed versus believing you will easily succeed_, and has found time and again that these beliefs have very different effects on achievement. For example, in one study, obese women who wanted to lose weight were enrolled in a comprehensive weight-reduction program. At the start of the program, Oettingen asked the women to tell her about their expectations for successfully losing weight. And after reading everything I just wrote about positive expectations, it shouldn’t surprise you to learn that the women who believed they would succeed in losing weight lost an average of twenty-six pounds more than those who believed they would fail.

But Oettingen also asked the women about their fantasies with respect to the weight-loss process— how they imagined it would happen. For instance, they were asked whether or not they imagined themselves easily resisting temptations like the box of leftover doughnuts in the lunchroom at work. Women who imagined that the path to weight loss would be easy lost an average of twenty-four pounds less than those who imagined themselves having a hard time resisting temptation. Oettingen and her colleagues have found the same pattern when looking at students in search of high-paying jobs after college, at single individuals looking to form lasting romantic relationships, and at seniors recovering from hip replacement surgery. **No matter who they are and what they are trying to do, we find that successful people not only have confidence that they will eventually succeed, but are equally confident that they will have a tough time getting there.**

Why is believing the road will be rocky so important for achieving your goal? For starters, despite being so unpleasant, negative emotions like anxiety and worry are useful. And that’s primarily because they can be very motivating. They can motivate us to take extra effort or to plan how we will deal with problems before they arise. Psychologist Dan Gilbert, in his book Stumbling on Happiness, observed that “we sometimes imagine dark futures just to scare our own pants off.”  And we do this because it pays.

Oettingen’s studies show that **people who believe goal pursuit will be difficult plan more, put in more effort, and take more action in pursuit of their goals.** They expect to have to work hard, so that’s exactly what they do. In contrast, people who believed that getting a good job after college would be easy sent out fewer applications. Those who imagined themselves falling quickly, hopelessly, and mutually in love with a secret crush were less likely to actually talk to that person about their feelings. Students who thought that doing well on an upcoming exam would be a piece of cake studied for far fewer hours. Patients who imagined themselves getting around effortlessly on their brand-new hip didn’t work as hard at their rehabilitation exercises. Ultimately, people who think that reaching their goal will be a breeze simply aren’t prepared for what lies ahead of them, and they can be devastated when the dreams that they’ve enjoyed dreaming about so much don’t actually come true.

Then what is the best way to set goals so that you will reach them, without getting stuck daydreaming? **The optimal strategy to use when setting a goal seems to be to think positively about how it will be when you achieve your goal, while thinking realistically about what it will take to get there.** Oettingen refers to this as **mental contrasting—first you imagine attaining your goal, and then you reflect on the obstacles that stand in the way.** If you want to get a high-paying job after college, start by imagining yourself accepting an offer at a top firm, and then think about what stands between you and that offer—namely, all the other really outstanding candidates that will be applying for jobs. Kind of makes you want to send out a lot of applications, doesn’t it? That’s called feeling the necessity to act— it’s a psychological state that is crucial for achieving a goal. Daydreaming about how great it will be to land that job or fall in love with that special someone you’ve had your eye on can be a lot of fun, but it won’t get you anywhere. **Mental contrasting turns wishes and day-dreams into reality, by bringing into focus what you will need to do to make it happen.**

- turn sth into sth


**It’s worth pointing out that mental contrasting only helps you commit to achieving a goal if the goal is something you really believe you can achieve.** (Here, again, we see the importance of believing you can reach your goal.) If you don’t believe you’ll succeed, mental contrasting will lead you to disengage from the goal. In essence, it will help you to abandon an unattainable fantasy. And this is actually another great thing about using this strategy. **Considering both what you want and what stands in your way will give you the clarity to make good decisions—when your chances for success are high, it will increase your commitment to your goal, making you more likely to successfully achieve it. When your chances are not so good, it will help you to recognize that and move on.**

- commitment


And while abandoning your fantasy may be painful and disappointing, it’s also a very important and necessary thing to do for your own well-being. **Only when we have come to recognize that a goal we have cannot be attained do we make room in our lives for something we can achieve.** For instance, it’s only when we admit to ourselves that our dysfunctional and hurtful relationship can’t be saved and we finally end it that we open ourselves up to the possibility of a healthier and happier relationship with someone else. Giving up your dreams of medical school when you realize they can’t come true allows you to step back and think about what other career you might be best suited for.

- make room for


Returning to the topic of goals you think you can achieve, Oettingen and her colleagues (in this instance I was one of them) have shown in numerous studies that when people who believe they can succeed are instructed to use the strategy of mental contrasting when setting their goals, they routinely outperform those who are equally confident but whose thoughts are all about imagining the happy ending. In studies of twelve-year-olds learning a foreign language, fifteen-year-olds doing test prep over a summer break, adults trying to attract a mate, and nurses trying to improve communication with parents, mental contrasting led to greater effort, energy, planning, and overall higher rates of achieving goals.

In a study of the effectiveness of mental contrasting with hospital human resource personnel, the managers trained to use this strategy reported two weeks later that they had improved time management and found it easier to make decisions. They even reported that they had more completed projects. Interestingly, they also reported that they had reassigned more projects to other managers compared to the no-training group. In other words, they were better able to see which projects they could handle successfully and which would be better handled by someone else. They behaved more rationally, more efficiently, and were much happier at work because of it. And the price of all this efficiency and happiness? Taking a few moments to learn a very simple technique that can be applied to every goal you are pursuing, or are merely thinking of pursuing. Here’s how:

### Setting Goals through Mental Contrasting

1. Grab your notebook or just a piece of paper, and write down a wish or concern you have currently. This can be something you are thinking of doing or something you are already involved with doing (like taking a vacation to the Caribbean, or moving to LA to become a screenwriter, or losing ten pounds).

2. Now, think about what a happy ending would look like for this wish or concern. Write down one positive aspect of this happy ending (for example, how great it would be to relax on the beach without checking your e-mail).

3. Next, think about the obstacles that stand in the way between you and your happy ending (for example, my overfondness for cheese tends to stand in the way between me and the thinner me who lives in my weight-loss happy ending).

4. Now list another positive aspect.

5. And another obstacle.

6. And another positive aspect.

7. And another obstacle. Now, what do you think your chances for success are? Should you pursue this goal? By contrasting the things you have to gain with the obstacles standing in your way, you should now have a better sense of how likely you are to succeed, and how committed you are to that success.

In this chapter, we’ve talked about the importance of setting specific, difficult goals for increasing motivation. We’ve looked at how the ways in which we describe those goals, to ourselves or to others, can influence our chances for success. And we’ve learned how to direct and harness the benefits of positive thinking (and realistic thinking) about the goals we’re setting. For some of you, if you stopped reading this book now, you’d already be more successful in reaching your goals than you were when you started.

But don’t stop reading now. Instead, move on to the next chapter, and we’ll talk about the goals you are already pursuing in your own life. Where did they come from? How did you end up choosing them over other, equally attractive goals? The answers may surprise you. And if you want to choose goals wisely, in ways that will make you happier and more successful, then you need to start by getting a handle on what you’ve been doing right and what you may want to do differently.
What You Can Do

I’m going to end each of the chapters in this book with a short summary of the main points I’ve tried to get across. That way, you can see at a glance the steps you can take in your own life to improve your ability to reach your goals. I’m giving you a lot to process here, so I hope this helps.

• Be specific. When you set yourself a goal, try to be as specific as possible. “Lose five pounds” is a better goal than “lose some weight,” because it gives you a clear idea of what success looks like. Knowing exactly what you want to achieve keeps you motivated until you get there. Avoid “do your best” goals—they are too vague to be really motivating. • Make it hard. It’s also important when you set goals to make them difficult, while still being realistic. You want to challenge yourself and set the bar high, because challenges really get the motivational juices flowing, while avoiding goals that are more or less impossible. Remember that if you set the bar too low, you may achieve your goal but are unlikely to surpass it—most people tend to slack off once they’ve reached their original target. Nobody sets out with the goal of losing five pounds and ends up somehow losing twenty. • Think why or what. Goals can be thought of in relatively abstract, why-am-I-doing-this terms or in more concrete, what-am-I-actually-doing terms. For example, dealing with the mess in your closets can be thought of as “getting organized” (why) or “throwing out clothes I never wear” (what). Think about your goals in why terms when you want to get energized, stay motivated, or avoid temptations. Think about your goals in what terms when you are dealing with something particularly difficult, unfamiliar, or anything that takes a long time to learn. • Consider value and feasibility. Remember that we all tend to think more in why terms when contemplating our goals in the distant future. This leads us to give more weight to what’s desirable or valuable about the goal (like how much fun a trip to Disneyland would be) and too little weight to how feasible it is (as in, “How the heck am I going to afford this trip to Disneyland?”). In the near future, we naturally think in what terms, which can lead to too much emphasis on being practical and not enough emphasis on enjoying what life has to offer. The best goals will usually be the ones you’ve adopted after weighing both desirability and feasibility in an unbiased way. • Think positive but don’t underestimate. When you’re setting a goal, by all means engage in lots of positive thinking about how likely you are to achieve it. Believing in your ability to succeed is enormously helpful for creating and sustaining your motivation. But whatever you do, don’t underestimate how difficult it will be to reach your goal. Most goals worth achieving require time, planning, effort, and persistence. Thinking things will come to you easily and effortlessly will leave you ill prepared for the journey ahead, and as a result can be a recipe for failure. • Use mental contrasting to set your goals. When you are thinking about taking on a new goal, make sure you think about both the wonderful things that will happen if you succeed and the obstacles that stand in your way. This process of mental contrasting will not only help you to make a good decision about whether or not to adopt the goal, but it will naturally engage your motivational systems and maximize your commitment to the goals that you do decide to achieve.
