---
title: C++ 设计模式之访问者模式
date: 2017-07-17 14:08:47
tags:
  - 设计模式
---


Consider someone visiting Dubai. They just need a way to enter Dubai. After arrival, they can come and visit any place in Dubai on their own without having to ask for permission or to do some leg work in order to visit any place here; just let them know of a place and they can visit it. Visitor pattern lets you to do just that, it helps you add places to visit so that they can visit an much as they can without having to do any legwork.


In plain words

Visitor pattern lets you add further operations to objects without having to modify them


Wikipedia says

In object-oriented programming and software engineering, the visitor design pattern is a way of separating an algorithm from an object structure on which it operates. A paractical result of this separation is the ability to add new operations to existing object structures without modifying those structure. It is one way to follow the open/closed principle.


check list

- Confirm that the current hierarchy (known as the Element hierarchy) will be fairly stable and that the public interface of these classes is sufficient for the access the Visitor classes will require. If these conditions are not met, then the Visitor pattern is not a good match.

- Create a Visitor base class with a visit(ElementXXx) method for each element derived type.
- Add an accept(Visitor) method to the Element hierarchy. The implementation in each Because of cyclic dependencies, the declaration of the Element and Visitor classes will need to be interleaved.

- The element hierarchy is coupled only to the Visitor base class, but the Visitor hierarchy is coupled to each Element derived class. If the stability of the Element hierarchy is low, and the statbility of the Visitor hierarchy is high; consider swapping the "roles" of the two hierarchies.
- Create a Visitor derived class for each "operation" to be performed on Element objects. `visit()` implementations will rely on the element's public interface.
- The client creates Visitor objects and passes each to element objects by calling accept()



### 总结

- Visitor 模式通过所谓双重分发（double dispath） 来实现不更改
- 被访问者及其子类层次结构必须稳定，其中的操作面临经常变化。
