---
title: Succeed How We Can Reach Our Goals
date: 2017-03-07 21:30:29
tags:
  - mind
---
> No.8

## Can a Leopard Change Its Spots?

<!-- more -->
Implicit theories aren’t just about intelligence—they can be about practically anything. **You can believe that your personality is fixed—that you are who you are and you can’t teach an old dog new tricks. Or you can believe it is malleable—that you can change and improve your personality and turn over a new leaf.** And even young children are guided by these beliefs, particularly when it comes to personality and character. For instance, Dweck and her colleagues studied a large group of ten- to twelve-year-old boys and girls and asked them about their friendship goals. Those children who believed that their own personality and character couldn’t be changed were more focused than their peers on being popular and avoiding rejection. On Valentine’s Day, these children would make valentines for the most popular children, hoping to win their favor. Those more focused on avoiding rejection would make valentines only for the children who they knew would give one in return. On the other hand, the children who believed they could improve and grow as a person tended to choose goals that were more about developing relationships. Their valentines went to children they said they would like to know better, opening the door to friendship.


We find the same patterns outside the classroom as well—even when it comes to choosing a mate. People who believe that their personalities are pretty much fixed tell us that they are looking for a mate who will see them as “perfect” and make them feel good about themselves. They choose partners who they think will feel “lucky to be with me.” And they are quick to exit a relationship that becomes too argumentative or critical. Those who believe their personalities can change seem to prefer partners who will challenge them to develop and grow, and are more likely to see a “rough patch” in the relationship as an opportunity to learn about their partner and themselves. Psychologist Jennifer Beer has shown that shy people even have different theories about their own shyness—theories that influence how they interact with their social world. In one study, Beer offered shy individuals a choice between two encounters involving another person, which she told them would be videotaped. One was a situation in which they would be paired with a very social and charming person, from whom they could learn some valuable social skills. The downside of this choice, they were told, was the fact that they would probably appear awkward on the video compared to the expert charmer. They also had the option of choosing to talk to someone even more shy, with even worse social skills. They wouldn’t learn anything from this experience, but at least they would look good on the video by comparison.

Those people who believed that “I can change aspects of my shyness if I want to” (the ones who thought shyness was malleable) strongly preferred the opportunity to learn, even if it made them look foolish. Those who felt that their “shyness is something about me that I can’t change very much” (the ones who believed it was fixed), on the other hand, much preferred the chance to look good by comparison. **When we believe that there is something about ourselves we cannot change, we pursue goals that focus exclusively on presenting ourselves to others in the best possible light.** Ironically, these are goals that often actively prevent change—goals that make it impossible for us to learn and grow.

### How We Get Unstuck

How often have you found yourself avoiding challenges and playing it safe, sticking to goals you knew would be easy to reach? Are there things you decided long ago that you could never be good at? Skills you believed you would never possess? If the list is a long one, you are undoubtedly an entity theorist— and your belief that you are “stuck” being exactly as you are has done more to determine the course of your life than you probably ever imagined. Which would be fine, if the entity theory were true. Only it isn’t—it’s dead wrong.

Let’s focus on the example of intelligence (though you can make the same arguments about personality characteristics as well). I’m not trying to suggest that our genes don’t play a role in determining how smart we are. And yes, smart parents often have smart kids. But as psychologist Richard Nisbett points out in his excellent book Intelligence and How to Get It, **smart parents give their children a lot more than just a bunch of chromosomes.** **They create home environments that are richer in learning opportunities. They talk more to their children. Often, they make more money and so are better able to provide educational opportunities and send their children to better school districts.** **Smart parents seem to give their children many, many more chances to develop their intelligence.**

- chromosomes 染色体


And if you don’t believe me, just look at what happens when _**less privileged children**_, from educationally impoverished backgrounds, are given the same kinds of chances. They get smarter. To take just one example, look at the extraordinary success of the KIPP (Knowledge Is Power Program) charter schools. Like most KIPP schools, the KIPP academy in the South Bronx _serves primarily poor, minority students_, many of whom receive little guidance, support, or educational encouragement in the home. KIPP provides a rich educational environment as well as explicit instruction in the importance of discipline and hard work. These students go to school from 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with additional time on Saturdays and over the summer. Teachers visit students’ homes, insist on respectful and courteous behavior at all times, and make themselves available via phone at any time of the day or night. Students put extra time into learning, and teachers provide the care and support that is tragically so often missing in the homes of poorer children.

And what does all this extra time and care and support accomplish? A great deal. More than 80 percent of KIPP students perform at or above their grade level in both mathematics and reading—about twice as many as a typical New York City school. According to KIPP, their graduating eighth-graders outperform 74 percent of students nationwide on reading and math tests—a remarkable feat considering the fact that a KIPP student usually starts out performing at around the 28 percent level. Given the opportunity, there is no doubt that KIPP students are in fact getting smarter.

Carol Dweck provides yet another example of how students can get smarter in the right environment —in this case, an environment in which they are explicitly taught the incremental theory of intelligence. She divided seventh-grade students at several New York public schools into two groups: a control group and a you-can-get-smarter theory _intervention group_. Students met for half an hour a week, for eight weeks, with a member of the research team. The researcher spent those sessions teaching the children about the physiology of the brain and how it learns and grows, through science-based readings, activities, and discussions. The researcher also emphasized how intelligence is malleable and can be developed through experience and hard work. For comparison, the control group of students spent the same amount of time learning about other aspects of the brain, like how memory works. But their lessons did not involve any discussion of the nature of intelligence. And while the control group’s math scores worsened over the course of the seventh grade (an unfortunately common finding among students transitioning from grade school to junior high), students in the intervention group showed improvement in math scores after receiving the special theory-based training. This suggests that **the key to getting smarter is first coming to believe that it is possible to get smarter—our beliefs can open (or close) that door.** Nisbett writes that “**the degree of heritability of IQ places no constraint on the degree of modifiability that is possible.**” In other words, even if your genes are playing a role in determining how much intelligence you start with (or what kind of personality you start with), that doesn’t necessarily mean that they predict what you end up with. In study after study, we find that people who are given opportunities to develop their skills and knowledge, and who are motivated to do so, do indeed get smarter. No matter how you measure it, whether with IQ scores, standardized tests, or GPAs, it’s clear that **intelligence is profoundly malleable—experience matters a lot.** And if you’ve believed up until now that you couldn’t get smarter—that you just weren’t good at math, or writing, or computers, or music, or socializing—then maybe it’s time to toss out your entity theory. It’s been doing you wrong. You, on Autopilot

When most of us think about setting goals, we tend to think of it as a very conscious, deliberate affair. We weigh the pros and cons, we assess our chances of success, and if we decide to adopt the goal, we commit ourselves fully to it. It’s all very intentional—nothing accidental or thoughtless about it. And it’s certainly true that some of the goals we pursue are very much the product of purposeful, conscious intention. But not all of them. If the truth be told, not even most of them. Because the vast majority of goals you are pursuing, every day of your life, operate entirely without your awareness.

As creepy as that sounds, there are good reasons why human beings work this way. For one thing, the conscious mind—the part of your mind that handles the stuff you are aware of at any moment—is surprisingly limited. It can handle only so much at once before it gets confused and starts dropping things. The unconscious mind is another matter. Its processing power is enormous. **Metaphorically speaking, if your unconscious mind can hold information equivalent to a NASA supercomputer, your conscious mind can hold roughly the contents of a Post-it note.**

Consequently, we work best when as much of what we are doing can be delegated to the unconscious mind as possible. And typically, **the more we do something, the more automatic it becomes—the more it is controlled by our unconscious thought.** Most adults have had the experience of driving from work to home at the end of a long day and suddenly realizing they have no memory of how they got there. The entire way home, your conscious mind is preoccupied by something else ... and then, presto, you’re home again. Fortunately for you, your unconscious mind is a pretty decent driver. It even stops at red lights. And even though you weren’t consciously thinking to yourself “I want to go home,” your unconscious mind knew that was your goal, so it took you there.

But how did it know you wanted to go home if you weren’t actually thinking “I want to go home”? **The answer is that the goal is triggered in your mind by cues in your environment.** The setting sun, finishing work for the day, sitting in your car—all these cues tell your unconscious mind that it’s time to go home. Cues that get paired with a particular goal again and again can come to activate that goal without you even realizing it, until it’s all over and you’re sitting in your driveway—sometimes, without you ever realizing you were pursuing that goal at all.

### The Wonderful Thing about Triggers

What aspects of your environment can trigger the unconscious pursuit of a goal? We are only beginning to identify and understand all the potential sources, but a good short answer would be that just about anything can trigger goal pursuit. For example, words or images that are related to the goal can do it. In one study, psychologists John Bargh and Peter Gollwitzer observed people playing what’s known as a “resource-dilemma” game. In this case, they were fishing from a computerized version of the village fishing pond. Each player wanted to catch as many fish as possible in order to maximize their own profit and win the game. But, just like in real life, you can take only so many fish without overdepleting the pond, at which point you and everyone else in the village go hungry. So some cooperation is necessary, and every time a player catches a fish they have the choice between keeping the fish (to get the highest possible personal profit) or throwing it back (to benefit the community, and your own longer-term interests). Before beginning the game, Bargh and Gollwitzer asked some of the participants to construct sentences out of a jumble of words that included helpful, support, cooperative, fair, and share. **Remarkably, simply reading these words seemed to unconsciously trigger the goal to cooperate.** Those participants returned 25 percent more fish than the people who hadn’t been exposed to the cooperation- triggering words. In fact, they returned the same number of fish as the people who were given the explicit, conscious goal of being cooperative! And that’s worth taking a moment to think about—**a consciously, intentionally chosen goal can give you the same results as a completely unconsciously triggered goal.** This is a relatively new discovery in the science of motivation, but it’s one we’re seeing again and again. **Having the goal is what matters—how it got there appears to be much less important.**

In another study, Bargh and Gollwitzer asked students to work on a Scrabble-like puzzle, making words out of letters randomly placed together. Each student worked on the puzzle alone in a room with an intercom (and, unbeknownst to them, a video camera). After two minutes a voice came over the intercom, commanding the student to stop working on the puzzle. But before beginning the puzzle, half of the students had been asked to work on another puzzle—this one a word search, containing words related to the goal of achievement, such as win, succeed, strive, master, and, of course, achieve. Bargh and Gollwitzer found that 57 percent of the students who had an achievement goal unconsciously triggered continued working on their Scrabble puzzle even after the voice had told them quite clearly to stop (compared to only 22 percent among students who hadn’t been triggered).

Maybe now those “motivational” posters you see plastered everywhere with pictures of mountains and rivers and words like “TEAM-WORK” and “DETERMINATION” in big, bold letters are starting to seem a little less silly, right? Most people look at those and think, “Yeah, right ... like I’m going to be more motivated because I’m forced to stare at a poster that says ‘SUCCEED’ all day. Who cares about a stupid poster?” **Well, it turns out your unconscious mind does. And it’s already gone to work.**
