---
title: Oprah
date: 2017-06-13 13:31:35
tags:
  - qcldu
  - 死磕英语
---

It doesn’t matter how far you might rise. At some point you **are bound to** **stumble** because if you’re constantly doing what we do, raising the bar. If you’re constantly pushing yourself higher, higher the law of averages not to mention the Myth of Icarus predicts that you will at some point fall.
<!-- more -->

- If you say that something is bound to happen or be true, you feel confident and certain of it, although you have no definite knowledge or evidence.
- If you stumble, you put your foot down awkwardly while you are walking or running and nearly fall over.


And when you do I want you to know this, remember this: there is no such thing as failure. Failure is just life trying to move us in another direction. Now when you’re down there in the hole, it looks like failure. So this past year I had to **spoon feed** those words to myself. And when you’re down in the hole, when that moment comes, it’s really okay to feel bad for a little while. Give yourself time to mourn what you think you may have lost but then here’s the key, learn from every mistake because every experience, encounter, and particularly your mistakes are there to teach you and force you into being more who you are. And then figure out what is the next right move. And the key to life is to develop an internal moral, emotional G.P.S. that can tell you which way to go.

- If you say that someone is spoon-fed ideas or information, you mean that they are told about them and are expected to accept them without questioning them.


But the challenge of life I have found is to build a résumé that doesn’t simply tell a story about what you want to be but it’s a story about who you want to be. It’s a résumé that doesn’t just tell a story about what you want to accomplish but why. A story that’s not just a collection of titles and positions but a story that’s really about your purpose. Because when you inevitably stumble and find yourself stuck in a hole that is the story that will get you out. What is your true calling? What is your dharma? What is your purpose?
