---
title: GOF 23 设计模式概述
date: 2017-07-17 08:17:07
tags:
  - 设计模式
---


Creational design patterns
===

These design patterns are all about class instantiation. This pattern cab be further divided into class-creation patterns and object-creational patterns. While class-creation patterns use interitance effectively in  the instaniation process, object-creation patterns use delegation effectively to get the job done.


- Abstract Factory

Creates an instance of several families of classes

- Builder

Separates object construction from its representation

- Factory Method

Creates an instance of several derived classes

- Object Pool

Avoid expensive acquisition and release of resources by recycling objects that are no longer in unsorted

- Prototype

A fully initialized instance to be copied or cloned

- Singleton

A class of which only a single instance can exist.


Structural design patterns
===

These design patterns are all about class and object composition. Structural class - creation patterns use inheritance to cimpose interfaes. Structural object-patterns define ways to compose objects to obtain new functionalty.


- Adapter

Match interfaces of different classes.

- Bridge

Separates an object's interface from its implementation

- Composite

A tree structure of simple and composite objects


- Decorator

Add responsibilities to objects dynamically

- Facade

A single class that represents an entire subsystem

- Flyweight

A fine-frained instance used for efficient sharing


- Proxy

An object representing another object


Behavioral design patterns
===


These design patterns are all about Class's objects communication.
Behavioral patterns are those patterns that are most specifically concerned with communication between objects.


- Chain of reponsibility

A way of passing a request between a chain of objects

- Command

Encapsulate a command request as an object

- Interpreter

A way to include language elements in a program

- Iterator

Sequentially access the elements of collection

- Mediator

Defines simplified comunication between classes

- Memento

Capture and restore an object's internal state

- Null Object

Designed to act as a default value of an object

Observer

A way of notifying change to number of classes.


- State


alter an object's behavior when is state changes


- Strategy

Encapsulates an algorithm inside a class


- Template method

Defer the exact steps of an algorithm to a subclass


- visit

Defines a new operation to class without change
