---
title: No.10 Succeed How We Can Reach Our Goals
date: 2017-05-10 22:32:08
tags:
  - mind
---

Understanding who succeeds and who gives up or fails in any achievement situation—be it in the classroom, on the playing field, or in the workplace—has been a major concern of scientific psychologists for decades. Most people assume it has a lot to do with intelligence, but that’s surprisingly wrong. How smart you are will influence the extent to which you experience something as difficult (for example, how hard a math problem has to be before it stumps you), but it says nothing about how you will deal with difficulty when it happens. It says nothing about whether you will be persistent and determined or feel overwhelmed and helpless.

<!-- more -->

The goals you pursue in the classroom, playing field, and workplace, on the other hand, can tell us quite a lot about how you will cope with difficulty, and whether or not you are likely to ultimately succeed. Psychologists who study achievement have been particularly interested in the differences that arise when people focus on performing well to demonstrate ability (being good) versus focusing on progress, growth, and gaining mastery (getting better).

### When Your Goal Is to Be Good

Psychologists refer to the desire to be good—to show that you are smart or talented or capable, or to outperform other people—as having a performance goal. When you pursue performance goals, your energy is directed at achieving a particular outcome—like getting an A on a test, reaching a sales target, getting your attractive new neighbor to go out with you, or getting into law school. Though they don’t necessarily need to be, the performance goals most of us pursue in our everyday lives are often tied closely to our sense of self-worth. We choose these goals in the first place because we think reaching them will give us a sense of validation—making us look and feel smart, talented, and desirable. And then we judge ourselves according to whether or not we are successful. So not getting an A isn’t just disappointing in its own right, but it also means I’m not smart enough, not good enough. Coming up short of my sales goal means I’m not good at my job. When my neighbor doesn’t seem interested in me, I’m unattractive and unworthy. When I don’t get into law school, I’m a total failure. Performance goals are characterized by an all-or-nothing quality—you either reach the goal or you don’t. You win or you lose. As the saying goes, “close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades”—definitely not when it comes to performance goals. When all you care about is being good, being almost good or mostly good is really not much consolation.

Performance goals are very motivating, not surprisingly, because there is often so much riding on success. In study after study, we find that people pursuing be-good goals work hard to do well and, under the right circumstances, are the highest achievers. Students with strong performance goals often get the highest course grades; employees with strong performance goals often are the most productive. If I told you that I was judging you based on how well you did something—that I was evaluating your intelligence, or your competence, or your athletic ability, or how likable you are, you’d probably be very motivated to do it as well as you possibly could. But performance goals have a double-edged-sword quality—those ties to self-worth that make them so motivating are also what make them less adaptive when the going gets tougher.

If you think about it, this makes sense. When my goal is to get an A in a class and prove that I’m smart, and I take the first exam and I don’t get an A ... well, then I really can’t help but think that maybe I’m not so smart, right? Concluding “maybe I’m not smart” has several consequences, and none of them are good. First, I’m going to feel terrible—probably anxious and depressed, possibly embarrassed or ashamed. My sense of self-worth and self-esteem are going to suffer. My confidence will be shaken, if not completely shattered. And if I’m not smart enough, there’s really no point in continuing to try to do well, so I’ll probably just give up and not bother working so hard on the remaining exams.

When you pursue the goal of being good, you can quite easily become a victim of a tragic self-fulfilling prophecy—believing that you don’t have what it takes, you stop trying, which dooms you to fail. Which of course just reinforces the (mistaken) belief that you didn’t have what it takes in the first place. (As Thomas Edison once noted, “Many of life’s failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.”) So it’s not surprising that performance goals can also lead to the lowest achievement, along with a heavy dose of disappointment and self-doubt.

### When Your Goal Is to Get Better

Not every student is obsessed with getting A’s. In each of the classes I’ve taught over the years, there has always been another group of students—admittedly, a minority—who seemed to care more about what they could learn than what they had to prove. They are easy to spot because their behavior is so very different from the be-gooders. They ask questions—questions that they know won’t be on my exam. They ask about how the topic I’m currently lecturing on is related to what we talked about in class weeks ago, or how it’s related to something they learned in a different course, or to something they saw on the news. They challenge my interpretation of a study—asking if there isn’t another way to look at the results. These are the students that hang around after class to ask more questions. They’re the ones who come to my office hours, midterm exam in hand, wanting to know why they got a particular question wrong—not to argue with me, but to understand. To truly master the material I am trying to teach them. To get better.

Psychologists refer to the desire to get better—to develop or enhance your skills and abilities—as a mastery goal. When people pursue mastery goals, they don’t judge themselves as much by whether they achieve a particular outcome—like getting an A or surpassing a sales goal. Instead, they judge themselves in terms of the progress they are making. Am I improving? Am I learning? Am I moving forward at a good pace? It’s less about any one performance and more about performance over time. These goals are tied to self-worth in a totally different way, because they are about self-improvement rather than self-validation—about becoming the best, most capable person you can be, rather than proving that you already are.

When we pursue mastery (get-better) goals, we are less likely to blame our difficulties and poor performances on a lack of ability, because that wouldn’t make sense. Of course I lack ability—I haven’t mastered this yet! Instead, we look to other, more controllable causes. Am I putting in enough effort to learn this material? Should I be using a different strategy? Should I ask an expert for help? When people run into trouble in pursuit of get-better goals, they don’t get depressed and helpless like the be-gooders —they take action. They ask themselves what they are doing wrong, and they fix it. If I get a C on my first exam, I double my study time and try a different study technique, like using flashcards or outlining. If I fall short of my sales goal, I sit down with the more experienced salespeople in my company and ask them for guidance. If my neighbor doesn’t seem interested in me, I think about how I might get him to notice me and how we can get to know each other better. If I don’t get into law school on the first try, I seek out advice from law school professors or admissions officers to see what I can do to make myself a more attractive candidate before applying again. Get-better goals can sometimes lead to the greatest achievement, because people who focus on getting better rarely make the mistake of giving up too soon.

In study after study, psychologists have found that the pursuit of be-good performance goals and get-better mastery goals leads people to look, feel, and behave very differently. In the remaining pages of this chapter, I’ll highlight some of the most interesting and important differences we’ve found.

Which Goal Is Best for Me? I wish there were a simple answer to that question. This is another one of those times where I’m forced to admit that “it depends.” As I mentioned earlier, there are times when be-good performance goals seem to be more motivating than get-better mastery goals. People who are trying to prove that they are smart or worthy often approach a task with enormous energy and intensity. This turns out to be particularly true when tangible rewards are at stake. In one study, psychologist Andrew Elliot and his colleagues 2 asked study participants to work on a game very similar to Scrabble, where they would try to make as many words as possible after rolling a set of dice marked with letters, for which they would score points. Those in the be-good goal condition were told that “the purpose of this study is to compare college students with one another in their ability to solve these puzzles.” Those in the get-better goal condition were instead told that the purpose of the session was “to learn how to play this game well.” Half of the students in each group were also told that if they did well enough, they would get a chance to earn extra credit points in the course they were currently taking. College students love extra credit points, so this was a very desirable reward.

When making words didn’t earn them any extra credit, students in the be-good and get-better goal conditions scored about the same—right around 120 points. But when the extra credit reward was introduced, those in the be-good goal group scored 180 points—50 percent higher than the still 120-point get-better goal group. It turns out people who are focused on trying to develop a skill are not that impressed by rewards. But when you are trying to demonstrate what you can do, it’s that much more motivating when high ability earns you something you really want.

Other studies have shown that the pursuit of be-good goals can lead to higher scores on a wide variety of tasks, like solving math problems or playing pinball, and in some cases they can even lead to higher course grades. But in many of these studies, it’s clear that the participants weren’t really all that challenged by what they were doing—the problems or games were relatively easy, and the courses were ones in which most students did pretty well. So when you find something relatively easy to do, it’s very motivating to focus on giving the best possible performance and validating your goodness, and it will probably pay off for you.

A very different picture emerges, however, when the road gets rockier—when people are dealing with unfamiliar, complex, or difficult tasks, with obstacles, or with setbacks. That’s where the advantages of focusing on growth over glory become clear.

### Dealing with Difficulty

Laura Gelety and I ran a series of studies specifically looking at how people handle difficulty in pursuit of both be-good and get-better goals. 3 We told participants in our studies that we were interested in problem solving. Half of them were then told that their score on the problems they were about to work on reflected their “conceptual and analytical abilities,” and that their goal should be to try to get a high score. In other words, we gave them the goal of trying to be good, to demonstrate their smartness. The other half were told instead that the task was a “training tool” that would help them to develop their abilities, and that their goal should be to “take advantage of this valuable learning opportunity.” We gave these students the goal of trying to get better, by improving their problem-solving skill.

We also varied the difficulty of the problems by introducing challenges for some of the participants. We threw in unsolvable problems, without actually mentioning that they were unsolvable. We interrupted participants while they were working, using up their time even though they knew time would soon be up. Across the studies, we found that the pursuit of get-better mastery goals was unaffected when we ramped up the difficulty factor. No matter what we did to them, participants in the easier and more challenging conditions did equally well. A very different picture emerged when it came to be-good performance goal pursuit. Introducing difficulty or obstacles to be-gooders resulted in significantly fewer problems solved.

Remember a few chapters ago when I said that expectations for success are very important for motivation? That people tend to do well when they believe they are going to do well? That’s perfectly true. But one of the most interesting findings to emerge from our studies is that it is more true for be-good goals than get-better goals. When we introduced challenges and ramped up the difficulty for our participants, their expectations for success very understandably went down. They felt, given how hard the task seemed, that they were less likely to do well. But those people who were pursuing be-good goals seemed to be most affected—their expectations dipped way down. And perhaps more important, even when their expectations did dip, those participants pursuing get-better goals were unaffected by it. In other words, no matter how poorly they thought they would do on the problems, they remained motivated to try and to learn.

That’s worth taking a moment to think about. When you are focused on getting better, rather than on being good, you benefit in two very important ways. First, when things get tough—when you are faced with complexity, time pressure, obstacles, or unexpected challenges—you don’t get so discouraged. You’re more likely to believe you can still do well if you just keep trying. Second, when you do start to have doubts about how well you are doing, you are more likely to stay motivated anyway. Because even if you think succeeding will be difficult for you, you can still learn. Improvement is still possible. You can still get better. So when a task is difficult, and persistence is the key to higher achievement, get-better mastery goals have the clear advantage. And there is no better place to see that advantage than in the grueling and dream-crushing ordeal that is the college pre-med experience.

### Persistence and the Pre-med

Everyone who wants to go to medical school is required to take a set of core science courses in college, including several courses in chemistry and biology. Pre-med students approach these courses with, at best, trepidation and, at worst, abject terror. That’s because good grades (preferably A’s) in pre-med courses are pretty much essential for getting into medical school. And general chemistry, taken during the first semester of a student’s freshman year, is the first hurdle to be overcome.

For many students—particularly those at top-tier colleges and universities—this is the first truly difficult course they have ever taken in their lives. Students who have been at the top of the honor roll throughout middle and high school find themselves suddenly in a course where typically half of them will get a C or lower. The ones who succeed will have to fight for it—they will have to handle the difficulty with grace and determination, keeping up their effort and motivation in the face of that disappointing first midterm. But who fights for it? Who succeeds, and who gives up and becomes a psychology major? (I’m only half kidding. Psychology is one of the most popular majors on most college campuses, and I’d wager that while it’s mostly because psychology is fascinating, it’s at least partly because psychology seems to be a safe haven for many former pre-med refugees.) Carol Dweck and I believed that the goals students were pursuing in their chemistry courses might have a lot to do with who fought for success and who gave up too soon. So we asked the freshman chemistry students at Columbia University to tell us about what their main focus and objectives were with respect to chemistry. Just to be clear, everyone in that course wanted to get an A. It’s not as if some of them didn’t care what grade they ended up with—Columbia is a pretty competitive place. But for some of the students, grades seemed to be all they cared about. And more important, they believed that their grades reflected how smart they were—good grades mean you’ve got it, poor grades mean you don’t. They agreed with statements such as “In school I am focused on demonstrating my intellectual ability.” Other students told us that they also cared a lot about learning and developing, endorsing a statement such as “I strive to constantly learn and improve in my courses” and “In my classes I focus on developing my abilities and acquiring new ones.”

Armed with a sense of the goals these students where pursuing, we looked carefully at their course grades throughout the semester. We found that the students who actively pursued get-better goals not only received higher overall course grades, but that they did so precisely because they improved with each exam. In fact, get-better goals didn’t actually lead to higher grades on the very first exam—their benefit was felt in subsequent exams, when the students who held them were more likely to keep up or even increase their efforts and stay motivated. We saw the opposite pattern when it came to students who were focused on proving themselves through their grades—their performance actually deteriorated over time, particularly when their first exam grades were less than stellar. So when persistence is what is needed to succeed—when you need to be in it for the long haul and not give up too soon—get-better goals are just what the doctor ordered. 4

Lest you think that these goals only matter in the classroom, I can assure you that we find these effects everywhere. For example, in one study, psychologist Don VandeWalle and his colleagues observed sales performance among 153 employees of a medical supplies distributor, who were responsible for the sales of over two thousand lines of medical supplies and equipment. Theirs was a challenging job—one that required effort and persistence (often in the face of frequent rejection). At the beginning of the observation period, the salespersons were asked to fill out surveys indicating whether they were primarily performance-goal (be-good) focused (“I very much want my coworkers to consider me good at selling”) or mastery-goal (get-better) focused (“Learning how to be a better salesperson is of fundamental importance to me”) with respect to their jobs. VandeWalle found that focusing on be-good performance goals did not lead to superior sales. On the other hand, those salespeople with stronger get-better goals set themselves higher sales targets, put more time and effort into their sales, and engaged in better planning. As a result, the stronger their focus on getting better, the more units they sold. So even in the “real world” outside the college classroom, people who pursue getting-better goals are in fact better at getting the difficult jobs done. 5

### Having a Good Time

Many people have no doubt told you that when it comes to your goals, it’s important to enjoy “getting there.” That you need to love not just the result, but the “process”—the means as well as the end. They’ve told you that this is the key to happiness. Good advice, except for the part where they forget to mention how exactly you go about doing that. It’s not always easy to enjoy getting there, to savor the experiences along the way. For many of us, it just doesn’t come naturally to focus on what is interesting and enjoyable about what we’re doing when we’re in goal-pursuit mode. Many of my students seem so focused on memorizing the material they need to remember for my exams that they barely stop to think about what they are actually learning. And that’s because they, like many of us, are trying to achieve be-good, performance goals. Be-good goals are all about the outcome, and so that’s what holds all of our attention.

Get-better goals, on the other hand, are all about the journey. In dozens of studies, psychologists have found that when people pursue get-better goals, they find greater interest and enjoyment in what they do. They have a heightened attention to the process, experience a greater sense of involvement and immersion, and personally value what they are learning more. This was true even among our pre-meds —the ones focused on getting better told us that they found the experience of learning chemistry interesting, enjoyable, and engaging. When pursuing the right goals, even the periodic table of elements has a certain charm.

Having more fun pursuing your goals is a good thing in and of itself, but that’s not all. Interested students are also more likely to be active, rather than passive, participants in their own learning. Studies show that students who find the material interesting are more likely to generate their own questions and seek the answers to satisfy their curiosity. 6 They use “deeper” processing strategies, like looking for themes, connections, and underlying principles in the material they are learning, instead of the more “surface” processing strategies like rote memorization and cramming so favored by be-gooders. They are less likely to procrastinate. 7 And all that active learning and question asking and not procrastinating leads, not surprisingly, to higher achievement. If you choose get-better goals, you have greater success because you enjoy the process of getting better. So sometimes you really can have your cake and eat it, too.

### Asking for Help

One of the most important things you can do to reach any difficult goal is know when to ask for and accept help. Seeking help can be a very effective way to cope with obstacles, face challenges, or just navigate unfamiliar terrain. But sometimes—in fact all too often—people avoid asking for help because they don’t want to look or feel incompetent. Asking for help means admitting you need it. So if your goal is to be good, to show how smart or capable you are, then needing help may feel like an admission of failure. On the other hand, seeking help is a great way to get better, and the people who pursue mastery goals instead of performance goals clearly know it.

Psychologist Ruth Butler found this to be the case when she looked at how school teachers’ own goals with respect to their teaching predicted their tendencies to seek help. Butler distinguished between two kinds of help that people can seek. “Autonomous” help promotes understanding and learning, so that eventually you can do whatever it is on your own. “Expedient” help refers to those times when you really just want someone to do the work or handle the problem for you. Put differently, expedient help is giving a hungry man a fish, and autonomous help is teaching him how to fish.

Among her group of 320 elementary, middle, and high school teachers, Butler found that some pursued mostly get-better goals in the classroom. They said that they felt most successful when they “learned something new about teaching or myself as a teacher” and when they “saw that I was developing professionally and teaching more effectively than in the past.” Others focused mainly on be-good goals and felt most successful when “my classes did better than those of other teachers on an exam” or when “the principal commended me for having higher teaching ability than most of my colleagues.” It shouldn’t surprise you at this point to hear that those teachers who pursued get-better goals were more likely to seek help. Specifically, they sought autonomous learn-to-fish help (“I’d prefer someone to refer me to books that can help me improve my knowledge” and “I’d prefer to be offered a workshop on methods of classroom management”) but did not seek expedient give-me-the-fish help (“I’d prefer that the principal or someone else deal with the disruptive students” and “I’d prefer someone to refer me to work-books that the students can do by themselves”). 8

So far, I’ve told you that people who focus on improving and developing their abilities have quite a few advantages over people who focus on demonstrating their abilities. Get-better goals lead you to handle difficulty gracefully, persist in the face of challenge, find interest and enjoyment in what you do, use better strategies, and seek the right kind of help when you need it. But even a life chock-full of get-better goals is no guarantee that things will never go wrong. Things will go wrong. Sometimes very wrong. And, as it turns out, get-better goals are handy when that happens, too.

### When Feeling Down Can Fire You Up

Everybody gets the blues. No matter what your goals are, there will be times when things don’t work out for you—when circumstances change, when problems arise unexpectedly, when getting what you wanted was harder than you thought it would be. Bad things happen, and they can be very, very depressing. Of course, for people who focus on growth and progress, as opposed to constantly trying to prove themselves, the depressions that do occur tend to be both less severe and less frequent. When you’re striving to get better, you are less likely to blame bad things that happen on something about you that can’t be changed, so you don’t get quite so depressed. And that’s good news because it means that by emphasizing getting better over being good, we can help both ourselves and others to live lives less burdened by emotional pain and its terrible consequences.

But as I said earlier, everybody gets the blues—even if you fill your life with get-better goals, bad things will sometimes happen, and you’ll be depressed by them. The really remarkable news is that it turns out depression doesn’t work quite the same way for everyone, and how it affects you depends on the goals you pursue. My colleagues Carol Dweck, Allison Baer, and I first noticed this through our interactions with an undergraduate research assistant in our lab at Columbia University who I’ll call Robyn. Even though I have worked with hundreds of undergrads in my lab over the years, I still remember Robyn as one of the most relentlessly energetic, motivated, and capable students I’ve ever known. If you asked her on Monday to have something done by Friday, it was finished on Tuesday. She was always on time, always eager to help and to learn, always 100 percent engaged. So you can imagine our surprise when she told us, several months into her assistantship, that she had been suffering on and off from a painful depression the entire time we had known her. You could have knocked me over with a feather. “Nobody who’s depressed looks like that, do they?” we thought. “Is that possible? Can you run around like that, be that effective, and actually be depressed?”

Understanding Robyn became our new challenge, and since she was so clearly a mastery-seeking, getting-better kind of person, we wondered if perhaps depression looks very different when it’s not coupled with the goal of trying to prove yourself and validate your worth. To find out, we asked a group of just under a hundred undergraduates to fill out a diary every day for three weeks. In it, we asked them to tell us about the worst thing that happened to them each day, how they were feeling about it, and what, if anything, they did in response. We also asked them to check off from a list of daily activities anything they had done that day, including studying, hanging out with friends, and doing household chores, such as washing dishes or laundry.

Before beginning the study, the students filled out a questionnaire that measured whether they were focused mostly on achieving be-good performance goals (“I feel as though my basic worth, competence, and likability are ‘on the line’ in many situations I find myself in”) or get-better mastery goals (“As I see it, the rewards of personal growth and learning something new outweigh the disappointment of failure or rejection”).

We weren’t at all surprised to find that those students who spent most of their time trying to be good were more likely to experience depression than those who were more focused on getting better. Nor was it surprising that the worse the be-gooders felt, the less likely they were to do something useful about it. Feeling bad made them less likely to try to take any action to try to solve the problem. Feeling bad also made them less likely to function well in other aspects of their lives—their dishes lingered in the sink, their dirty laundry piled up, and their textbooks gathered dust.

But we were surprised to find that when they did experience depression, the getting-better group responded very differently to it. The worse they felt, the more likely they were to get up and do something about it. If the problem was something they could fix, they took action. If the source of their depression was something out of their own control, they tried to see the silver lining and grow from the experience. And here’s what’s really remarkable: the more depressed getting-better people get, the more likely they are to keep up with their other goals—the sadder they felt, the quicker they were to tackle the laundry pile and crack those books. So when you are pursuing get-better goals, taking a poor performance “to heart” is actually good for you. Feeling bad seems to fuel the fire, making you that much more motivated to achieve success.

If you focus on growth instead of validation, on making progress instead of proving yourself, you are less likely to get depressed because you won’t see setbacks and failures as reflecting your own self-worth. And you are less likely to stay depressed, because feeling bad makes you want to work harder and keep striving. You get up off the couch, dust off the potato chip crumbs, and get busy getting

better. 9

It may seem incredible to you that shifting the focus of your goals from being good to getting better can so dramatically affect your life. Think of it this way: goals are like lenses in a pair of glasses. The goals you pursue determine not only what you see but how you see it—the things you notice and how you interpret what happens to you. Failures become feedback on how to improve. Obstacles become surmountable. Feeling bad propels you off the couch. Change your goal and you change your glasses—your world becomes a very different place.

### What You Can Do

• Be good or get better? In this chapter, we focused on the difference between goals that are about proving yourself (being good) and goals that are about improving yourself (getting better). At work, in school, in your relationships—do you see what you are doing as trying to become the best, or showing everyone (including yourself) that you already are?

• Be good to perform well. Wanting to be good is very motivating and can lead to excellent performance, provided that things don’t get too difficult. Unfortunately, when the road gets rocky, people who are focused on proving themselves tend to conclude that they don’t have what it takes—and give up way too soon.

• Get better to improve performance. When we focus on getting better, we take difficulty in stride—using our experiences to fuel our improvement. People who pursue growth often turn in the best performances because they are far more resilient in the face of challenges.

• Get better to enjoy the ride. When your goal is to get better rather than to be good, you tend to enjoy what you’re doing more and find it more interesting. In other words, you appreciate the journey as much as the destination. You also engage in deeper, more meaningful processing of information and better planning for the future. You are even more likely to ask for help when you need it, and more likely to truly benefit from it.

• Get better to fight depression. People whose goals are more about self-growth than they are about self-validation deal with depression and anxiety in more productive ways. Feeling bad makes them get up and take action to solve their problems, rather than just lie around and feel sorry for themselves. Not surprisingly, their depressions tend to be both milder and shorter than those of people who are constantly trying to prove they are capable and worthy.

• Get better to achieve more. The bottom line is, whenever possible, try to turn your goals from being good to getting better . Rather than lament all the ways in which your relationships aren’t perfect, focus on all the ways in which they can be improved. At work, focus on expanding your skills and taking on new challenges rather than impressing everyone with how smart and knowledgeable you are. When your emphasis is on what there is to learn rather than what there is to prove, you will be a lot happier and will achieve a lot more.
