---
title: Succeed How We Can Reach Our Goals
date: 2017-03-03 20:02:57
tags:
  - mind
---

> No.5
## Now versus Later

<!-- more -->
If you’re going to strike the right balance when it comes to thinking why versus what in pursuit of your own goals, it will be helpful to know when you might unconsciously be biased toward one kind of thinking or the other. That way, you can catch yourself favoring the why or what and compensate for it. A couple of pages ago, I told you that once a task becomes easy or familiar, most of us start favoring why thinking. **Another powerful influence on whether you think of an action or a goal in abstract why or concrete what terms is time— specifically, how long it will be before you actually do whatever it is you are planning to do.** Are you going to start your new diet tomorrow, or next month? Are you considering taking a vacation next week, or next year? Recent research has shown that most of us are biased to think about more distant future plans in higher level, more abstract terms—ones that emphasize the why. Near future plans, on the other hand, tend to be more concrete—more focused on what you will need to do to get it done.

Psychologists Yaacov Trope and Nira Liberman made this discovery when they asked a group of undergraduates to choose the best descriptions for a set of everyday activities. One group was asked to imagine doing each activity in the near future (“tomorrow”), while another group was asked to imagine each activity in the more distant future (“next month”). Trope and Liberman found that the students preferred to describe an activity such as “moving into a new apartment” as “packing and carrying boxes” (a what description) when imagining doing it tomorrow, but preferred the more abstract, why- based “starting a new life” when imagining the same activity a month from now.

It turns out that these differences have important implications for how we make choices and decisions. And they can lead us into different sorts of trouble. **Why thinking leads you to pay more attention to what psychologists call _desirability information_.** In other words, whether or not taking that action or achieving that goal will result in good things for you. How fun, pleasant, or rewarding will it be? When we consider doing something in the more distant future, this is primarily what we’re trying to evaluate. Will going to medical school a few years from now make me successful and rich? Will speaking at that conference six months from now be good for my career and enable me to see old friends? Will having my in-laws over next Christmas be wonderful for my kids? If the answers are “yes,” then you are likely to adopt that goal (like getting into medical school) or take that action (like inviting your in-laws for the holidays).


> What was it ultimately that led you to leave Sarajevo for Zagreb?


**More concrete, what thinking leads you to place more weight on _feasibility information_—whether or not you can actually do whatever needs to be done.** How likely are you to succeed? What obstacles stand in the way of your success? When we consider doing something in the near future, this is what we spend the most time thinking about. What are the chances l can get into medical school next year given my grades? Who will watch my kids if I attend that conference next week? Where the heck are all those relatives going to sleep when they arrive tomorrow?

Did you ever wonder why you commit yourself so often to something in the future that seems like a good idea at the time but becomes more and more awful as the day approaches? “Why did I ever agree to this?” we lament. “How did I think I could get into med school with a C in biology?” “Why did I think I had room in my house for a dozen more people?” And now the panic sets in—because when you decided your goal was to become a doctor, when you decided to fill your house with your husband’s family, you didn’t really spend all that much time thinking about whether or not you could make it work. You were thinking why, not what, and if it’s any consolation, it’s a situation most of us fall in again and again. Because **we are biased to think about future events more in terms of why we want to do them and less in terms of how we’ll actually get it done, we adopt goals and plans with potentially rich rewards that are also logistical nightmares.**

For more near events, we make the opposite mistake. How many spur-of-the-moment chances to do something fun, interesting, or rewarding have you turned down because they just seemed like too much hassle? I once turned down a free trip to India because I thought it would be too stressful to try to prepare for it adequately in just a few weeks’ time (Did I need vaccinations? Could I get my passport renewed? What about a visa? Who would watch my dog?). I didn’t go even though I knew that if I had really exerted myself, I probably could have pulled it off. It was a decision I came to regret so much that eventually I did take a trip to India, except instead of being free it cost me many thousands of dollars. (So much for what thinking.) **Many of us _have a hard time being_ truly spontaneous or _seizing_ unforeseen opportunities in the near future**. We focus too much on the what, not enough on the why— getting so bogged down by the details that we forgo opportunities that might have been really rewarding (or, in my case, significantly cheaper).

- seize opportunity

> During the riots hundreds of people seized the opportunity to steal property...

Liberman and Trope have illustrated the why-what **trade-off** in a series of clever studies. In one, Tel Aviv University students were given a choice of course assignments. They varied whether the assignment was boring but easy (“history of psychology” readings in Hebrew, the students’ native language) or interesting but hard (“romantic love” readings in English, which students could read but with much more difficulty). The researchers also varied when the assignment would be due—the students would be given one week to work on it, and it would be due either the following week (in the near future) or nine weeks later (in the more distant future). Students who had to complete the assignment the next week overwhelmingly preferred the easy but boring option—they were willing to sacrifice interest to keep from having to work too hard. Students who could put off the assignment for nine weeks, on the other hand, chose the harder but more interesting readings hands down. And though in some ways the more noble, and certainly more desirable, choice, there is no doubt that some of these students regretted their decision when grappling with their English-to-Hebrew dictionaries two months later. So when we think about what we want to do in the distant future, **we sacrifice practical considerations for the potential for reward**. And when we think about what we’ll do in the near future, we tend to be all business, no pleasure. Put differently, **about the future, we think like explorers—but when it comes to the here and now, we’re more like _accountants_.**

And speaking of accounting, these biases have even been found to apply to decisions involving money. For any gamble, you need to consider two things: the payoff and the odds. The payoff is the desirability information—it’s why you are gambling, the reward you’ll (potentially) get from it. The odds are about feasibility—it’s what could actually happen, the probability that this will work out for you. When students were given a choice between a lottery with a high probability of winning $4 or low probability of winning $10, those who were to play that day strongly preferred the sure thing with the low payoff, while those who were to play two months later usually picked the long shot with the bigger payoff. A similar result was found in a study of raffle preferences—for a raffle being drawn that day, people preferred the raffle ticket for a chance to win a Brita filter pitcher (an unpopular item, and therefore one you have a good chance of winning), but when the raffle was two months from now, most people preferred the chance to win a new stereo (the very valuable item with the much less favorable odds). In any scenario that involves risks and rewards (and really, when you think about it, that applies to just about anything), it’s important to weigh both kinds of information as clearly and objectively as possible. **Knowing how your thinking may be affected by time—by whether you are deciding about the near or distant future—is crucial if you want to compensate for your natural bias and make the best possible decision.**

The differences caused by why thinking and what thinking go beyond just the choices we make. In another study, Liberman and Trope asked people to plan how much time they would spend on a set of work-related and leisure activities either “next week” or “a week a year from now.” When the plans were for the more distant future, an average of eighty-two hours were allotted, compared with an average of sixty-eight hours for the near future. So people tended to think that on average they would have about fourteen more hours available each week next year than they do now. It goes without saying that that’s probably not realistic, though it does explain why so many of us find ourselves struggling to juggle all the goals and plans we thought we’d have enough time for.

Also, when planning for next week, the amount of time study participants planned for work activities was negatively related to the time spent for leisure activities—in other words, people quite rationally recognized that time spent doing one thing means time not spent doing another. Interestingly, this wasn’t the case when it came to future planning. In the distant future, participants seemed to consider each activity in isolation, and how much time they would like to spend on it, rather than recognizing the trade-offs they would necessarily have to make.

Thinking what when it comes to your goals is an excellent way to not only be more realistic about your time, but also to prevent procrastination. In one study, Liberman, Trope, Sean McCrea, and Steven Sherman asked undergraduates to complete a short survey and return it to them via e-mail within three weeks in order to earn a cash prize. 6 Before receiving the survey, each participant completed a task designed to put them in either a why-thinking or what-thinking mind-set. To encourage why thinking, the students were asked to take a list of ten activities like “opening a bank account” or “writing in a diary” and come up with reasons why someone might do these things. To create a what mind-set, students were given the same list and asked to describe how you would actually go about doing each activity. The researchers then recorded how long it took for the students to achieve their goal (by completing the survey and sending it back). Remarkably, the ones who had been encouraged to think what sent in their surveys nearly ten days earlier on average than those who thought why (in another version of this study, the difference was closer to fourteen days). So thinking about your goal with a what mind-set leads you to focus on the specific action you need to take, which helps you to act more quickly in achieving your goal. Focusing too much on why you want to do something, on the other hand, may lead you to be rather sluggish when it comes to actually doing it.

Psychologists are often asked some form of the question “Is it better if I do A or B?” Is it better to vent your emotions or to distract yourself from what’s bothering you? Is it better to focus on your mistakes or to leave the past behind? More often than not, the answer we find ourselves forced to give is, “Well, it depends.” So if you ask me if it’s better to think in terms of the big picture or the nitty- gritty, you leave me no choice but to say that it depends—in this case, it depends on what kind of goal you are trying to achieve. Big-picture, why thinking about your goal is most helpful for getting you motivated and energized, focusing you on the rewards you can gain, and encouraging self-control and persistence. Nitty-gritty, what **thinking will benefit you most when your goal involves doing something difficult or unfamiliar, focusing you on the practical details of getting the job done, and helping you to avoid procrastination.** **Greater achievement comes not from choosing one style over the other, but from deciding how to think about your goal to best overcome the specific challenges you are facing** (or how to talk about a goal to best meet someone else’s challenges).
